1. bible explorer app

This project began with a simple idea. One of the best ways of studying the bible is through cross references.
Maybe sentence embeding could be used to achieve a similar result?

First, using sentence-transformer library, I converted all the bible verses as an embedding of 384 dimensions.
All data for each bible verse, including the embedding was stored in postgres within supabase.
I used a relational database because there was a clear structure in my data, and postgres also an extension to easily store embeddings.

Then, there was some debate on the computation required to compare the similarity of the verses.
I could calculate it each time there was a search, but this would be very slow to compute with k-nearest neighbors.
Because the database of bible verses would never be updated, I ended up doing the calculation beforehand and saving top 50 verses for each verse in the DB.

Next, I though it would be useful to have a feature to compare the user input with the verses.
Because the user input is not predetermined, I had to use k-nearest neighbors for this task.
However, soon, I will be using approximation techniques to improve the speed of this feature.

After deciding the structure of the project, I had to think about the best wayvto present the results in the frontend.
Initially, it was a regular form with dropdown menus to choose a bible verse and a text box to input a query.
But this looked way too dull.

Instead, I decided to represent each verse as a star, with all the verses representing a galaxy or universe of verses.
This fit neatly with the main purpose of the site, which was to allow users to "explore" the verses.

Because this required reducing the embeddinng from 384 dimensions to 3, I began looking for dimensionality reduction techniques. 
To be honest, I am still not very familiar with dimensionality reduction techniques, but UMAP seemed to preserve the overall relation between embeddings better than others.
Because I wanted to get a working site as soon as possible, I didn't get to test with various parameters for UMAP.
This, along with the inherent difficult of reducing the dimension more than hundredfold, led to a representation that is not optimal.
If you search for different verses / queries, you will observe that some of them are close to each other, but many are also far away from one another.


2. language learning app

[Application]
This project came to my mind as I was studying spanish on my own. 
I was studying the language through a textbook, along with youtube videos and podcast for listening practice. 
However, because I was studying alone without a partner, I couldn't apply what I learned in natural setting.
So, why not build an AI conversational partner that can help me practice spanish more naturally?

This time, I spend more of my energy on the framework that I plan to use.
I wanted to try a full stack framework, so I decided on Next.js with typescript.
I also used graphQL as my api as I thought the schemas would have synergy with type safety.
Because chatting required constant flow of information from the bot, graphQL sbu

I spent some time designing the schema for messages and conversation. 
I used MongoDB this time, because the data would keep getting added and I wanted to stay flexible on what would be included in the database.

First, I started with the basic components required for a chatting app, including message bubbles, date dividers, and side navigation.
Then TTS buttons 

The coding didn't take much time, especially with the help of Claude Code, but majority of my time was spent of how to best personalize the chatbot for each user.
What information can I obtain from the user which will be useful for the model?

[AI Engineering]

Then, it was time to choose the model.
My original model was Llama 3.2 1B Instruct.
Because I was trying to not spend any money for this project and make it sustainable, I needed a small model that could run in free version of HF space.

After choosing the model, I tested the model with a series of inputs.
What I found out was that it generally gave responses that were too verbose and unnatural.
This was even after changing the system prompt to make the responses feel like regular chatting.

I thought this would be a good opportunity to practice finetuning.
At first, I wanted to finetune the model on specific characters.
For example, a user can chat with a Don Quioxte to learn spanish, or a Korean idol to learn Korean.
But when I began searching for training data, I realized this task would be near impossible.

So, instead I decided to finetune the model per langauge.
It would be done with 3 langauges: Korean, English, and Spanish.
I chose English and Korean because I could check the quality of the response.
I chose Spanish because I wanted to use the app myself to learn the language.

I still struggled to find conversational data that could help with my finetuning. 
So after searching through kaggle and huggingface dataset, I decide to use synthetic data.
Because I had $300 of free credit for Google Cloud Console, I decided to use Gemeni 3 flash for generating data.

I spent some time thinking of variables to include for the data.
I made a list of various topics that users would generally be interested in, like travel or food.
Other variables included conversation length (no. of messages), conversation position, and and CEFR levels.
I also experimented with other variables like politeness and correction styles, but decided not to include them at the end.

After generating 2000 conversations per language, I used a the peft library in kaggle notebook to finetune the model.
Training loss, validation loss, perplexity, and LoRA weights all showed that the model was learning well.
I chose Huggingface space to host the finetuned model, as it offered 16GB of RAM for free.
Once I set up the APIs for token streaming, adapter switching, and a simple gradio UI, I began testing the model.

Then I ran into 2 issues.
First was even the 1B parameter model was extremely slow for inference, sometimes taking 5-10 minutes to generate a simple response.
Despite having minimal system prompt and short messages, it was simply unusuable.

Second, the 1B model did not have the performance I expected.
It worked okay in English, but the performance degraded when I switched to spanish or korean.
It was especially disasterous in Korean, where the finetuned model struggled to even understand the messages that I was sending.
It just kept repeating incoherent sentences one after the other.
I first thought I did something wrong during finetuning, but the problem persisted even with the base model.

To solve the first issue, I looked for ways to optimize inference on CPU.
I came accross the llama-cpp library and the GGUF format, which was known to improve inference on CPU setting.
So I quantized the model to Q4_K_M, uploaded the models to HF model repo, and switched from transformers to llama_cpp.
Initially it seemed to work faster, but then the speed kept fluctuating per message.
Sometimes it would respond in 5 seconds, while other times it would take 5 minutes.
After trying various optimization methods and failing to observe significant or persistent improvements, I decided to move on from HF space.
I decided on modal, primarily because it offered $30 of free credit per month to deploy my model.

For the second issue, I looked for varoiu






